Add documentation link checkboxes to the feature issue template (#8)
Phished-BV/.github: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-issue.md

<!-- High level, leaving the details of affected areas and expected results in the testing instructions below -->

### Additional context

Documentation link:  

> <!-- Check off one of the following fields, do not remove this section -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Check off only one of the following fields. -->
```

> <!-- The second checkbox is only available when QA was involved in planning -->

Author: 🤦

> <!-- The second checkbox is only available when QA was involved in planning -->

Author: > Only select the second option when QA was involved in planning 

May mislead to select the checkbox, because QA was involved in planning. I think my intention holds better, but feedback is welcome.

- [ ] I have provided the mandatory documentation link

> - [ ] No documentation link provided - this is a non-QAable sub-issue

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused, sorry if this is explained in the PR description but I'm struggling with understanding the full context.

If an issue is marked as "No QA", why should we mark an additional checkbox that says "No QA so no documentation"? Isn't this message implicit in the first checkbox?

Author: Problem statement: There are too many sub-issues in the QA column; only some need QA; but QA wants to have the context of all of them for situational awareness.

Proposed solution: Specifically for sub-issues that do *NOT* require QA:
a) Either the issue has a proper description, so QA engineers can have the situational awareness and understanding of what work is flowing through the board
b) or the issue lacks proper description *BUT* it's okay, because QA was either involved in a planning/exploration meeting, they reviewed the PRD, or other means of gaining that context way ahead of time.

In short, even if sub-issues are mostly for tracking engineering tasks, they still provide some context to QA in their column. But not all sub-issues deserve this equal treatment - no point in spending time on "mechanical subtasks" that the QA has been made aware of in the planning phase.

In other words, if I were to express my the intention with tags, I would have two:
- `no-qa-youve-seen-the-planning-before-subissue`
- `no-qa-why-dont-you-just-have-a-look-for-awareness`

The "no documentation" is not entirely true - in the case of the second checkbox, QA was part of the planning, so they're already aware of the fleshed out RMI. If they were not part of planning/RMI review, they at least want to see the issues passing for situational awareness. And I respect that.

If the distinction I'm trying to make is not clear, let's try to refine the approach while:
a) making the documentation an explicit part of the issue lifecycle (I just thought of a new column, but nobody will accept it 😂 )
b) remove sub-issues from the QA column that QA already has the context for (and they're not QA'able).

Perhaps here's a different wording, which truly boils it down, which is what JDS has said in the past - "No QA" doesn't mean he doesn't want to see the issue pass by. I'm trying to say he doesn't have to see *all* of the "No QA" issues for good reason :)

Reviewer 2: So will this replace the QA/No QA option? Because now we are inviting for conflicting states :D

Reviewer: Aren't we losing filtering capabilities by using checkboxes inside the issue's description instead of updating the property to a ternary selectable?

Author: I'm happy with anything that works, suggestions are welcome!

One suggestion: Changing "Needs QA" to:
Yes
Informative
No

`Yes`
`Informative` "no-qa-why-dont-you-just-have-a-look-for-awareness"
`No` for "no-qa-youve-seen-the-planning-before-subissue"

If we're not able to come up with a good proposition, maybe we should get back to the drawing board how to solve the problem described, then again - suggestions are welcome! :)

Reviewer 2: I have a suggestion:
- Needs QA = YES -> overarching (parent?) issue with functional description and testing instructions
- Needs QA = NO -> sub issues that directly link to the parent issue with a good title and technical description

Why do we need anything more?

If QA wants visibility in the technical parts of a testable issue, they can drill down into the sub issues.
Let's not create a bunch of additional administrative rules and checkboxes when we already have a solution that covers today's needs. I don't think the person who creates the issue can make a fully informed decision on whether QA needs to see the issue for situational awareness. It's going to end up with people making assumptions for other people, and not necessarily with an improved process.

Author: >  I don't think the person who creates the issue can make a fully informed decision on whether QA needs to see the issue for situational awareness. 

That's not the point. They know if QA was involved in designing the solution (or this is a somewhat mechanical, low level sub-issue).

Given I'm trying to solve a pain point for @JonasJsl and @ArdaLies , I'll ask for their input on this thread!

Reviewer 3: From a QA perspective, I agree with the problem this PR is trying to solve. We do not need every technical or mechanical sub-issue to pass through QA if it does not require validation and if QA already has the correct context from planning or from the parent issue.

However, for this to work, we need more consistency when issues are created. The `Needs QA` decision, documentation/context links, and parent/sub-issue relationships need to be correct from the start. The lack of consistency here is one of the main reasons QA often has to ask for documentation, review every single issue manually, or chase missing context.

I think the process should be standardized for all contributors:

- Parent issues should contain the functional context, documentation/RMI links, testing scope, and acceptance criteria.
- Sub-issues should always link clearly to the correct parent issue.
- Each issue or sub-issue should have a clear QA decision: `Needs QA` or `No QA`.
- A sub-issue can still be `Needs QA` if it can or should be validated independently before the full parent issue is complete.
- Purely technical sub-issues can be `No QA`, as long as they are linked to a parent issue that gives QA the needed context.

One concern I have is that we should avoid turning one large roadmap/RMI into a single huge parent issue where all sub-issues are marked `No QA`, and then QA only receives one big chunk of testing at the end. That would create a waterfall-style flow and increase QA overload, especially when multiple RMIs reach QA late with a lot of context and limited documentation.

A better structure could be to split the work by milestone, phase, or logical step:

- Milestone: well documented and linked to the roadmap in Notion

  - Parent issue 1: Needs QA
    - Sub-issue 1: No QA
    - Sub-issue 2: Needs QA, if it can be tested earlier
    - Sub-issue 3: No QA

  - Parent issue 2: Needs QA
    - Sub-issue 1: No QA
    - Sub-issue 2: Needs QA, if it can be tested earlier
    - Sub-issue 3: No QA

This gives QA a clearer view of the work, allows us to follow progress gradually, provide feedback earlier, and avoid receiving one large testing scope only at the end.

So I support the intent of reducing unnecessary QA-column noise, but I think the key is to standardize the issue structure and make the QA decision explicit and reliable. Otherwise, the checkboxes alone may not solve the root problem.

Reviewer 4: This discussion is getting quite big. What about setting up a meeting and pulling in the people interested, so we can come up with the best solution possible together?

Author: > Parent issues should contain the functional context, documentation/RMI links, testing scope, and acceptance criteria.

All of those are already part of the [GitHub issue template](https://github.com/Phished-BV/.github/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-issue.md)

> Sub-issues should always link clearly to the correct parent issue.

Already the case. If you use the "Create subissue" button on GitHub, you cannot get this wrong.

> Each issue or sub-issue should have a clear QA decision: Needs QA or No QA.

Already the case.

> A sub-issue can still be Needs QA if it can or should be validated independently before the full parent issue is complete.

Yes, the development team is well aware of this. You want to QA as early as possible, even if in parts.

> Purely technical sub-issues can be No QA, as long as they are linked to a parent issue that gives QA the needed context.

Yes, the development team is well aware of this. In fact, that is the idea of subissues, they constitute parts of one. You cannot drive a car without adding the body, engine and wheels. It's the parent issue that will ask you to verify "the car can drive".

> One concern I have is that we should avoid turning one large roadmap/RMI into a single huge parent issue

Yes, the development team is well aware of this. I kindly ask you to point out when you notice an issue that is too big, as we all aim for reasonably sized issues (for our own sanity and transparency).

---

Given none of your feedback referenced what was my understanding of the problem we were aiming to address and the already established process was essentially cited, I no longer see the need for this PR. Please point out on a case by case basis when this process is not adhered to, so any repeat offenders can get it right. Thanks!

> - [ ] No documentation link provided - this is a non-QAable sub-issue 

Author: Dang it, I admit okay, I admit! I wrote this in vim.

> - [ ] No documentation link provided - I will explain myself below

Reviewer 5: Could we perhaps soften the wording a bit?
```suggestion
- [ ] No documentation link provided - decisioning context explained below
```

Author: I see neither you nor @mggl-phi enjoyed that bit of humor 😂 Will adjust.

> - [ ] No documentation link provided - I will explain myself below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] No documentation link provided - context will be provided below
```
